Stage	Dialogue Box	Dialogue Key	What is being said 	Required action	What happens in the game/Action
N/A	Console	blank	 		
Controls	Console	ai online	Commencing system check . . .~AI unit: online.~Vitals: green.		UI border appears, dialogue box Console appears in top left
Controls	Console	calibrate movement	Initialising movement system . . .~Movement calibration required.~Task: move using WASD.		Prompt appears above POD (with transition in sem 2) with image showing how to move
Controls	Game	wasd	Move using WASD.	Move in each direction	Flashing bottom left corner of the image (sem 2)
Controls	W	w	W		
Controls	A	a	A		
Controls	S	s	S		
Controls	D	d	D		
Controls	Console	systems online	Movement calibrated.~System check complete.~All systems online.~Connecting to S.E.E.R. . . .~Welcome Protective.Observation.Drone.~Human Cryo Status: green.		Prompt closes
Controls	Console	planet livability	Initialising External Environment Scanner . . .~Planet P.R.I.M.E detected.~Launching planetlivability.exe . . .		Clear Console first
Controls	Console	launch cat	<PLANET IS UNABLE TO SUPPORT LIFE.>~Terraforming protocol updated.~Launching C.A.T.exe . . .		
Controls	CAT	need minerals	Hello! I am the Construction Assistant Technician. Here to assist with all your terraforming needs!		
Controls	CAT	need minerals	Your mission is to terraform this planet and make it habitable for the humans in the terraforming tower.		
Controls	CAT	need minerals	This planet is currently inadequate for human life, fortunately you have been equipped with me!		
Controls	CAT	need minerals	Firstly, we are going to need some building materials.		
Controls	Console	scan minerals	Scanning for mineral deposits.		Minimap Appears
Controls	Console	minerals detected	Detected +minerals&.		Minimap Detection + Mineral Layer (Minimap detection has layers)
Controls	CAT	gather minerals	Please gather 4 +minerals&.		
Controls	Console	task gather minerals	Task: gather 4 +minerals&.		Clear console first
Controls	Game	lmb	Hold LMB to gather +minerals&.	Gather minerals	Image of LMB appears above POD when near mining node
Controls	CAT	collected minerals	Good job! Any +minerals& you collect will be displayed here.		Clear Console, game highlights the resource area after the first strike
Resource Buildings	CAT	enough for building	Perfect, this should be enough to construct your first building.		
Resource Buildings	CAT	building blueprints	Stored in my memory are blueprints of buildings that can be used to make this barren planet a paradise for your humans.		Building UI Appears, Building Icons are still hidden
Resource Buildings	Console	task build fusion reactor	Task: build a [fusion reactor].		Clear Console first
Resource Buildings	CAT	build fusion reactor	First, you'll need power. Please build a [fusion reactor].	Build a fusion reactor	Highlights fusion reactor icon, player can only select reactor
Resource Buildings	CAT	resource buildings	Awesome. Now that you've got power, you'll need these buildings to collect resources for your base.		Highlights ice drill, harvester & gas pump
Resource Buildings	CAT	resource buildings	Keep in mind that you'll need to build on areas with the appropriate resources.		
Resource Buildings	Console	task build ice drill	Task: build an /ice drill\.		Clear Console first
Resource Buildings	CAT	build ice drill	Try building an /ice drill\! Look for a blue patch.	Build an ice drill	Highlights ice drill icon, player can only select drill
Resource Buildings	Console	task build gas pump	Task: build a @gas pump$.		Clear Console first
Resource Buildings	CAT	build gas pump	Now, build a @gas pump$! Look for a green patch.	Build a gas pump	Highlights gas pump icon, player can only select gas pump
Terraforming	CAT	got resources	Wonderful! Now let's look at the buildings that will contribute progress to the terraforming tower.		Highlights terraforming buildings
Terraforming	Console	task build boiler	Task: build a /boiler\.		Clear Console first
Terraforming	CAT	build boiler	Because you have enough /water\ and @gas$, I'll get you to build a /boiler\ first.		Highlights boiler icon, player can only select drill
Terraforming	CAT	ratio bars	Perfect. These are the ratio bars that contribute to your overall terraforming progress.		Highlight ratio bars
Terraforming	CAT	target building count	This shows your target building count! Try to build as close to this as you can.		Point at the golden bar
Terraforming	Console	task press p	Task: press the P key.		Clear Console first
Terraforming	CAT	press p	Press P to display more details.		
Terraforming	CAT	terraforming progress	You can see your overall terraforming progress here. Press P to disable this menu again.		
Terraforming	Console	task click building	Task: click a building to open the demolition menu.		Clear Console first
Terraforming	CAT	demolition menu	If you need less of one of your terraforming buildings, clicking on it will give you options for disabling or demolishing it. Try it.		
Terraforming	CAT	enabling buildings	If you merely disable a building, you can re-enable it from this menu later.		
Terraforming	CAT	good luck	That should be all you need to know from me. Good luck and happy terraforming!		
Terraforming	CAT	good luck	C.A.T. out. = ^__^ =		Resume clock
Terraforming	Console	cat closed	C.A.T.exe has closed.		Clear console first
Combat	Console	launch dog	Warning! Hostile alien activity detected.~Launching D.O.G.exe . . .		Triggered at night time; clear Console first
Combat	DOG	dog launched	DEFENCE ORGANISATION GUIDE ONLINE!		
Combat	DOG	aliens spawned	Listen up soldier! Those B.U.G.s look angry.		3 enemies spawn here
Combat	Console	task build turret	Task: build a <turret>.		Clear console first
Combat	DOG	build turret	Build turrets to defend your base.	Build turrets	Turret icons appear and are buildable
Combat	DOG	protect tower	You must protect the terraforming tower at all costs! If that gets destroyed it's <game over>.		Highlight Terraforming Tower
Combat	Console	task shoot	Weapon systems online.~Task: shoot with your on-board laser cannon.		Clear console first
Combat	DOG	shoot	You also have an on-board laser cannon to defend yourself with.		
Combat	Game	shoot	Press space to shoot.	Shoot	Image of space bar + to shoot
Combat	DOG	heal at terraforming tower	If you wanna patch yourself up head to the terraforming tower.		
Combat	Console	task heal	Task: heal yourself at the terraforming tower.		Clear console first
Combat	Game	heal	Press E to heal.	Press E in range of the terraforming tower	Image of "E" above terraforming tower
Combat	DOG	store disperse	At the end of each wave, you need to decide whether points gained should to be stored for better point accumulation, or dispersed to terraform the planet.		
Combat	DOG	good luck	That's all you need to know. Good luck out there soldier! Don't die!		
Combat	DOG	good luck	D.O.G. OUT! U???U		
Combat	Console	dog closed	D.O.G.exe has closed.		
Finished Tutorial	Game	finished tutorial	This is the end of the tutorial. You are on your own from here. Good luck!		Note: this is a texts that appear without a speaker (doesn't use dialogue box)
Skipped Tutorial	Console	system check	Commencing system check.~AI unit: online.~Movement system: online and calibrated.~Vitals: green.~Chronometer: online.~GPS: online.~Inventory: online.		
Skipped Tutorial	Console	begin game	Construction system: online.~External environment scanner: online.~Construction system: enabled.~All systems are online.~Task: terraform this planet for human habitation. Begin.		
	#Notes 				
	#Notes 	Technical	If the value of the Dialogue Box column starts with a #, it will be treated as a comment and ignored. The first line with the column headings will also be ignored and reading of this file's contents will begin from the second line.		
	#Notes 	Technical	The values in the columns Dialogue Box need to be character for character identical to the ID of the dialogue box that you want the dialogue to appear in.		
	#Notes 	Technical	To retrieve a dialogue set in-code, you need to retrieve it with the exact value listed in the Dialogue Key column.		
	#Notes 	Technical	If multiple lines of dialogue are listed with the same Dialogue Box ID and Dialogue Key, they'll be added to the same dialogue set and displayed in their dialogue box one after the other as the player indicates they've read each (except for the Console).		
	#Notes 	Technical	All dialogue is continued by pressing button [z]		
	#Notes 	Technical	If dialogue needs to be separated into multiple lines, denote the line break with a ~.		
	#Notes 	Technical	Special characters are used to denote a section of dialogue as being coloured differently to the default for a given dialogue box.		
	#Notes 	Formatting	All lines of dialogue should have the speaker's name		
	#Notes 	Formatting	Please order dialogue here in order of when it will be called just to make it easier to understand for the humans reading it.		
	#Notes 	TODO	Juice: Typewriter FX		
